[Music]
well it's time to weigh anchor get out
to sea and check out these 13 secrets
cruise ships don't want you to know when
you go on a cruise for the first time
life on the ship may seem very
mysterious how does this huge creature
function so efficiently but the more
experience you gain the better you'll
understand that there are some things
crewmembers don't tell you about and you
only get to know about the off-the-menu
treats or good deals on onboard
purchases if you're really lucky well
you don't need to learn these things the
hard way
uh-uh this video will open your eyes to
13 secrets cruise ship cruise don't want
you to know but before you make a wild
Dash for knowledge remember to hit this
enticingly red subscription button yeah
right there this is the door that will
lead you to the bright side of life with
all its cool videos and useful
information to keep track of daily
updates remember to turn on
notifications all right grab your life
vest and let's cast off counting down
from number 13 you should know that
there are no all-inclusive cruises
first-timers often believe that having
paid for a cruise they'll enjoy all the
riches of an all-inclusive trip
not exactly write down this list of
things that are typically not included
in the cost of a cruise to avoid a
feeling of horror when you see your bill
at the end most specialty restaurants
are free as are the buffets and main
dining rooms at the same time some of
them will require you to pay from $10 to
$30 per person if you are unwilling to
pay extra avoid spas and salons unless
you've picked a luxury cruise such
services aren't cheap pay attention
because excursions offered onboard often
aren't free you can use fitness
facilities you like
free weights to exercise bikes to
climbing walls to tennis courts however
for such classes as yoga dancing or
Pilates you'll most likely have to pay
about ten bucks in addition you'll have
to leave tips for the staff and that's
about ten dollars a day per passenger
alcoholic cocktail soft drinks and some
other beverages for example coffee in a
coffee shop can also have their price
before ordering things make sure you
know their cost in general the more
expensive cruises have more options
included that's why it often turns out
that paying more for a trip can actually
save you money number 12
every cruise ship has a jail on board
yeah think about it cruise ships
sometimes spend hours and even days on
the open sea what if somebody commits a
crime on board by the way it happens
much more often than you may think with
all those exotic alcoholic cocktails at
the bar for exactly this reason
each cruise ship has its own very real
jail called the brig this prison
typically consists of several small
rooms with only a bed for furniture
they're usually located at the front of
the ship offending individuals stay
there under lock and key until they get
transferred to the port authorities at
the end of the trip or at the nearest
port so behave yourselves number eleven
every cruise ship also has a morgue
onboard it's not part of the tour more
than twenty two million people go on
cruises every year many of them are
seniors enjoying their days in the most
relaxing way possible sadly cases of
people passing away on cruise ships
aren't so rare in fact about 200 people
pass away while on a cruise every year
that's why it's very important not to
boast your friends I'm just dying to go
on a cruise let's not tempt fate okay
now this is why it seems only logical
that every ship has its own morgue
when somebody dies the ship's crew won't
in four
other passengers about the tragedy so as
not to spoil the trip for the remainder
of the journey the body stays in the
morgue which is located in the staff
area of the ship passengers are
prohibited from entering this zone it's
pretty dead down there okay I'll stop
number 10 there are secret codes you'll
surely agree that the crew has to avoid
mass panic in an emergency situation
they have a solution to this problem
secret codes if you hear an announcement
of operation bright star or alpha alpha
alpha there's a medical emergency on
board an operation rising star means
that a passenger has died ah going to
heaven get it
code PB I doesn't have such a tragic
connotation you can decipher it as a
public vomiting incident mr. mob as well
as Oscar Oscar Oscar informs the crew
that there's a person overboard
Code Red stands for an illness outbreak
now you never want to hear Charlie
Charlie Charlie which means there's a
security threat or Bravo bravo Bravo
which gives notice of a fire oh and
Pizza Pizza Pizza means that Papa John
just fell overboard yeah just kidding
number 9 befriend the crew you may get
amazing perks besides having really
little sleep and tons of work crew
members can also enjoy some perks of
their profession such as parties and
cheap
this means $1 cocktails cheap alcohol at
the bars catering exclusively for the
crew if you manage to befriend some
staff members you might be able to have
a much more exuberant trip but in
reality you'll have a tough task at hand
crew members are often immediately
sacked and left at the nearest port
because they fraternize with passengers
Wow
number eight there's a secret pool
available for a chosen few and well
there's a tiny chance that you might be
invited to a crew only party there's
another amazing privilege just for those
who work on the ship that would be a hot
tub sometimes accompanied by a swimming
pool which is situated in the front of
the ship in the staff only area you
could wander for hours looking for a
free deck chair while crew members can
relax in a private hot tub isn't that a
good reward for their hard work here's
number 7 ask for adults only areas
there's one secret that may help you if
you have problems with hordes of people
near the common pool if you are older
than 18 look for adults only swimming
pools in public areas most passengers
don't know that such an option exists if
they do they can't go there with their
kids
that's why adults only zones are much
calmer and more relaxing than the rest
of the ship if you don't see such a
place ask a crew member sometimes these
swimming pools are situated in secluded
areas or under the roof number six
the crew has anti pirate training Yoho
pirates do exist nowadays and from time
to time they even attempt to attack
cruise ships
there have been six such cases recorded
but only one of them was successful
luckily the ship didn't have any
passengers on board at that moment the
crew eventually returned home and the
ship was retrieved after the owners paid
a ransom the area in which the risk of
pirate attacks is the highest is located
in the Gulf of Oman near Kenya Somalia
Yemen and Oman yeah I'd probably stick
to the Caribbean for a cruise there's no
pirates in the Caribbean are there
number five the bigger your ship is the
higher the risk of a fire between 1999
and 2011 79 fires happen on cruise ships
what's more since 2006 the number of
fires per year has doubled but honestly
it's no wonder
Oh Asus of the Seas one of the largest
cruise ships on the planet has so much
electrical wiring that it could stretch
across America from coast to coast and
owing to the proximity of all these
electrical things to water you can see
the potential hazard number four people
gain weight on cruises really
now several cruise reviewers conducted a
number of online polls according to the
results people gained between five and
ten extra pounds on a week-long cruise
it definitely depends on how much they
workout while cruising and how many
alcoholic cocktails they drink each day
never mind all the trips to the buffet
line number three your ship will easily
leave you behind
now if you return too late from a shore
excursion you may not find your ship at
the port bye bye this is especially the
case if you decided to save money by
buying an excursion when you win ashore
nobody on the ship has any obligations
to wait for you as cruise ships have to
stick to a very strict schedule
to be on the safe side always carry a
photocopy of your passport and other
documents some cash and credit cards and
bring your watch number to disease
outbreaks are not uncommon on cruise
ships the thing that any cruise ship
crew is most terrified of is norovirus
the problem is that everyone on the ship
lives in close quarters and shares
dining areas passenger turnover is fast
which also contributes to the problem
even if one infected person gets on
board this may result in a disastrous
gastrointestinal outbreak diarrhea
vomiting stomach cramps you get the
picture experienced crewmembers promise
that this is not how you want to spend
your vacation time
number one people go missing from cruise
ships few people know that cruise ships
are notorious for the number of people
that disappear without a trace every
year according to statistics from the
cruise victims Association Wow there is
such a group 165 people went missing
between 1995 and 2011 some sources state
that this number could be as high as 200
people nobody knows if the people fell
overboard committed suicide were
murdered or were kidnapped Oscar Oscar
Oscar
now press the like button if at least
one of these secrets managed to surprise
you tell us in the comments below if you
would like to go into cruise if your
answer is yes what would be your dream
destination I'm guessing probably not
the brig or the morgue
hey see you next time on the bright side
of life